So when the last lesson we made our first query against our graph que el database inside of our playground.
By asking for collections and then the items on them but let's take a deeper dive into not only what
other queries we have access to but also some other handy features that we have with this playground
while one thing that we have other than the schema is actually the docs and the docs gets composed by
the playground itself to tell us more about the things inside of it that we might be curious about.
So here we see all the queries that we have access to.
If we click it we can see that the details related to what we get back about it right here is that we
get back a collection and this collection has these properties.
Now if you're ever curious what the idea property with this type is if you click this it will tell you
that it is a scalar type right that represents a unique identifier.
It's often used to refresh an object or as a key for the cache and it comes back as a string.
When we get it back as a Jason object.
Now what this means is that a scalar type is something for the computer language to know that it is
a single value single meaning that it's not comprised of multiple things.
So it's not an object which might have multiple properties and multiple values.
It's not an array which might contain multiple different things see type is either a string an integer
or a boolean of some kind.
It's more complicated than that but that's the main thing you need to understand about it.
But the main thing you need to know is that when it comes back to us in the Jason object format that
we want for our front end it comes in as a string.
So that's the main thing.
Now we can dig through these docs and look through all of the definitions for all of these things and
this is a handy thing for us to use if we're ever curious to look more about the back end related side
of graph QoL and how it really gives us access to what types of properties inside of our application.
But let's just continue with working with the queries because we'll naturally get a better understanding
of it by doing rather than reading at this point especially for this lesson so the next thing I want
to show you is let's make a query for the actual collection by title before we do that.
I actually want to highlight one thing you are actually not able to query for items specifically.
I did not find that query for you guys because nowhere in our application do we actually make that request
for items.
So for example you cannot actually make a request for just the items.
If I get rid of this and this so that what we're making is just simply a single query you'll see you'll
get an error.
You cannot query the field for items because I did not define that for you guys in the back end.
So that's one instance where you got to really look at this schema to see what you have access to and
the reason I restricted this access is simply because we actually never use anything like this in our
front end.
So this is a very live example of seeing what you might or might not have access to but let's make these
other queries so let's go through collection by first the Query name will be exactly what it is that
you see inside of that schema.
So if we look at this autocomplete we'll see that we can query by this one collection and here.
Let's say I want this one so I'm going to copy this string and in order for me to query by the collection
I just look at the shape of what it expects it wants brackets and it wants me to pass this variable
I.D. with a value of the idea itself.
So I'm literally going to say I want I'm going to pass the I.D. and it's going to be equal to and then
I'm going to pass in the string and now I again if I look at this highlight it says I must say what
sub fields I want from this collection.
If it gets returned back to me so if I want back let's say the title then when I make the request I'm
just gonna get back this thing where I get back the data which will always have this data as well as
this key that the collection is this object that simply has the title of hat so really easy here.
And what if we say use a idea that doesn't exist.
Something like whatever.
If I make those requests now I'll see that I get back a null object.
Now this is important because every single type inside of graph QoL is a null label type meaning that
it can either be whatever it is.
Right.
So it can either be a string or it can be no.
That's all it means.
You can get back a string right or the object.
So for us the collection if it exists but if it doesn't then we'll always get back.
No.
So that's a thing to keep in mind when we write on our front and if we make a request for say something
like a specific I.D..
But ideas wrong while we're gonna get back a null object.
So that's a good thing to keep in mind especially when we start coding against this graphic UI API.
Now let's test out our last query and our last query is going to be very similar from what we saw with
this collection.
The only difference is that we now pass in a title.
And luckily for us this doesn't have to be case sensitive.
So if I do lowercase hats and I want to see the title and the I.D. And let's just get the items as well
and from the items I want the I.D. I want the name I want the price I know what the image URL.
Now if I make the request you'll see that I get back this data object again by here you'll see that
what I'm getting as the actual object itself is indicated by the name of the query.
This was actually the case for all those other queries we made.
They just also happened to look like what type we might be expecting.
But just understand that the requests you make will give you back data where the actual data sits under
the name of the query that we made.
So for us it was get collections by title so here what we got back was the one object and the one object
has the I.D. the title which as we see is capitalized.
But ours was lowercase.
So it's not case sensitive which is great.
And then we get back our items.
So this is gonna be very similar like what we're gonna use on our specific collection page component
so here we have a good idea kind of of what it's like to actually make requests and queries against
this database.
But how do we actually do this on our front end and especially how do we do this in react.
Well I'm going to show you.
So in the next lesson we are going to actually integrate using this graph your server and replacing
what we already have for fetching these specific items and data inside of our application.
So I'll see you in the next lesson.